In this lecture, you'll see how to configure a one-to-one Static NAT rule with a lab
demo. So you can see our lab scenario here.
I've got INT-S1. That's my Internal S1 server inside my company on the left.
It's using private IP address, 10.0.1.10 on the inside.
And I need to NAT that to a public IP address so that it can accept incoming connections.
The public IP address that I'm going to use on my outside interface on R1 is
203.0.113.3.
And we're going to need to test this as well.
So that's why I also have the External S1 server that I'm going to use to connect into S1 from there.
So let's configure this.
So I will jump on to my command line here on R1 where I'm going to do the NAT translation rule. I'll go to global
configuration and it's interface fa0/0.
That is my IP NAT outside interface and interface fa1/0 is my IP NAT inside interface.
So whenever there is traffic going between those interfaces that match a NAT rule, the translation will
be applied.
I need to configure my translation as well.
So my command for that is IP NAT then it's inside source and I'm doing a static translation from
10.0.1.10, the private address and the inside to 203.0.113.3,
the public address on the outside.
And that's the whole configuration done.
Now, whenever the host sends traffic out, it will be translated to the public IP address and whenever
traffic comes into the public IP address, it will be translated to the private IP address.
So let's check that it is working.
So first thing I'll do is I'll ping from the host on the inside going out to the public server on the
outside.
So let's set up a debug so we can see what's happening.
So on External Server1 on the outside, I'm going to do debug ip icmp. The difference between a show
command and a debug command,
whenever you enter a show command, it gives you a single point in time
output. It shows you what state it was when you hit enter on that show command.
When you do a debug, it gets updated in real time.
So whenever anything changes it will show you the output to your command line, as in when it's changing.
You'll see what I mean in a second.
So I've turned on ICMP debugging on EXT-S1, so when ping packets come into it, we should get
some information there.
Let's go on to INT-S1, the host on the inside
where we're doing the NAT rule for and see what actually happens.
So I'm going to ping 203.0.113.20 which is EXT-S1 on the outside.
I'll hit enter and then I'll go on to EXT-S1S1 and you can see there is the debugs coming in.
Actually, I will show you
debug better. Let's do an extended ping.
It's IP, target IP address 203.0.113.20.
And let's go for repeat count of 50 so you can see the debug happening. And I'll just hit enter for everything
else and jump over there. And you can see that the output is updating every time the ping packet is
coming in.
OK, so let's look at the output here. And I can see that the echo reply was sent back from the external
server to the internal server.
The source address used was the external server's IP address 203.0.113.10.
And the destination address is 203.0.113.3.
So I can see that may NAT rule is working. The actual IP address and the host, if I have a look at
that, with a show ip interface brief, this is actually  a router that I'm using here to emulate the server and
its IP address is 10.0.1.10.
So that's the IP address configured on the actual host's operating system.
But when it sends traffic out that 10.0.1.10 address, it is being translated to
203.0.113.3.
by the NAT rule on the router. OK, so it's working fine for outbound traffic. Let's just check the
inbound traffic is working as well.
So from the server on the outside, I will check that I can get to my Web server on the inside.
So I will telnet to its public IP address, 203.0.113.3.
And I'll do that on port 80 because for this example, it's a Web server on the inside.
So I'll enter 80 for the port number and I can see that is open.
So it was able to connect.
I've already configured the host on the inside to be a web server.
OK, so NAT is working in both directions. It's all good.
Let's check the translation table on
R1.
So I'll do a show ip nat translations and they're OK.
I can see the ICMP entry has timed out already. You'll see this in the real world as well.
That connections time out pretty quickly from the NAT translation table.
So let's do the ping again.
So I'll ping that outside interface again from the inside.
And now if I do a show ip nat translations on R1, I see that the output has changed. That was the
old one where the ping had actually timed out from the table.
The new entry is here where I can see, there's ICMP entry, so there is the ping.
So that was the ping.
It went from the real IP address on the host.
That's the Inside Local which was 10.0.1.10.
And that source address was NAT'd to 203.0.113.3.
So that's how it will look to the host on the outside.
The host on the outside is 203.0.113.20 and R1 is not doing any
kind of translation from that outside host so 203.0.113.20
shows up as both the Outside Local address and the Outside Global address as well, because I'm doing
one-way
NAT here. I'm not doing two-way NAT.
Also, we had that inbound Web HTTP connection from the outside server going to the inside server and that was
going to port 80.
So there again, I can see that the Inside Local, the private address 10.0.1.10, it was connecting
to port 80. The public IP address, that it was NAT'd from, 203.0.113.3
port 80.
And the host on the outside that connected in is 203.0.113.20.
And it was using source port 16282.
OK, so that's it.
That's how we can figure a Static NAT entry and how we verify it with the show ip nat translations
command. See you in the next lecture
where we'll do Dynamic NAT.